abaquant.marketdata.ticker
==========================

**Import path:** ``abaquant.marketdata.ticker``

**Domain:** Provider-neutral market-data facades, normalized records, caching, and analytics.

Purpose
-------

Lazy single-ticker applied market-data interface.

When to use it
--------------

Use this package to retrieve or inject quotes, price history, option chains, and financial statements while preserving a stable analytical interface.

Public objects
--------------

* **function:** ``get_ticker`` — Create a lazy applied interface for one normalized ticker symbol.
* **class:** ``MarketTicker`` — Lazy market-data facade with immutable identity and mutable session state.
  * ``MarketTicker.spot`` — Return the latest available spot-like quote supplied by the configured provider.
  * ``MarketTicker.dividend_yield`` — Return the provider dividend yield or the documented fallback.
  * ``MarketTicker.visualize`` — Return a market-price history figure for this ticker.
* **class:** ``TickerHistory`` — Historical-price and realized-volatility namespace for a market ticker.
  * ``TickerHistory.prices`` — Return the normalized price data required by this interface.
  * ``TickerHistory.realized_volatility`` — Estimate trailing historical realized volatility from ticker prices.
* **class:** ``TickerOptionAnalytics`` — Listed-option retrieval and model-analytics namespace for one ticker.
  * ``TickerOptionAnalytics.expirations`` — Return the available listed option expiration dates.
  * ``TickerOptionAnalytics.chain`` — Return a normalized listed option chain for one expiration.
  * ``TickerOptionAnalytics.analytics`` — Return listed-option-chain analytics for one expiration.
  * ``TickerOptionAnalytics.bsm`` — Price a European option under Black--Scholes--Merton using applied ticker inputs.
  * ``TickerOptionAnalytics.greeks`` — Return the model sensitivities implemented by this model.
  * ``TickerOptionAnalytics.listed_implied_volatility`` — Retrieve the listed implied volatility of the nearest available contract.
  * ``TickerOptionAnalytics.solve_implied_volatility`` — Solve the inverse Black--Scholes--Merton problem for implied volatility.
  * ``TickerOptionAnalytics.compare_models`` — Compare the option prices generated by the available pricing models.
* **class:** ``TickerFundamentalData`` — Lazy fundamental-statement retrieval namespace for one ticker.
  * ``TickerFundamentalData.info`` — Return provider metadata normalized to a plain Python dictionary.
* **class:** ``TickerCreditMetrics`` — Manual fundamental credit-proxy namespace for one ticker.
  * ``TickerCreditMetrics.assess`` — Evaluate manually supplied fundamentals for the ticker.
  * ``TickerCreditMetrics.assess_from_financials`` — Build provider-fed credit inputs from cached statements and assess them.
  * ``TickerCreditMetrics.proxy_metrics`` — Return flat manual credit-proxy metrics for convenient inspection.
  * ``TickerCreditMetrics.synthetic_score`` — Return the 0--100 heuristic synthetic credit-proxy score.
  * ``TickerCreditMetrics.altman_z_score`` — Return the traditional public-company Altman Z-score when available.
  * ``TickerCreditMetrics.piotroski_f_score`` — Return the complete nine-signal Piotroski F-score when available.

Detailed reference
------------------

.. automodule:: abaquant.marketdata.ticker
   :members:
   :show-inheritance:
   :member-order: bysource
